Now, lets talk about an example of
obtaining a population expected value.
So suppose a coin is flipped and
X is declared 0 or
1 corresponding to a head or a tail.
What is the expected value of X?
So again, the expected value is
the property of the population.
If we plug into our formula expected
value of X, is the probability 0.5 times
the value 0 plus the probability 0.5 times
value 1, so all the values that the coin
can take 0, 1 times the probability
that it can take them, added up.
This winds up to be 0.5.
So notice the expected value is
a value that the coin can't even take.
However, if we were to think
about this geometrically,
the answer is quite obvious.
If we have two bars, they are equal
height, one at 0 and one at 1.
And we wanted to balance them out.
It's clear where exactly we'd
put our finger if we wanted to.
It would be right here at 0.5.
Suppose that a random variable X is such
that P, the probability that it takes
the value 1 as p, and the probability
it takes the value 0 is 1 minus p.
This is a biased coin,
where the probability of
the head is not necessarily 0.5.
The probability of the head is now p.
What is it's expected value?
We'll plug in directly and
then formula 0 times 1 minus p plus
1 times p which works out to be p.
So the expected value of a coin flip,
even a potentially biased coin
is exactly the true long run
proportions of heads you would obtain
in infinitely many flips of the coin.
What about a die?
Suppose that a die is rolled, and
X is the number that is face up,
what is the expected value of X?
So, here we take the values 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and
multiply them the, times the probability
that the random variable takes them.
One-sixth, one-sixth, and so on.
You get 3.5.
Again, a number that the die
can't actually obtain.
So again,
the geometric argument makes this obvious.
We have six bars, all of height one-sixth,
and if we had to balance them out,
it's clear that we would
balance them out at 3.5.